---
buildingid: albertsonbuilding
title: Albertson Building
---

The J.A. Albertson Building marked the first permanent home for the University of Idaho’s College of Business and Economics, which had previously operated without a dedicated facility. Its completion in 2002 followed a successful $14 million fundraising campaign—the first construction project on campus to be fully financed by private donors. Designed by Grube Hall Architecture and Gordon Walker of Design West Architects, the building replaced the Administration Annex (1951), a 25,000-square-foot Modern structure that had occupied the site between the Administration Building’s wings. With roughly half of its 50,000 square feet stemming from that remodel, the Albertson Building emerged as an entirely new resource rather than a continuation of the Annex. The project reflected the university’s evolving academic priorities and responded to donor concerns that “student learning experience suffers from lack of space.” It provided state-of-the-art multimedia classrooms, a trading room, team rooms, a 24-seat distance education classroom, and consolidated services to support collaborative learning. Named for J.A. Albertson, founder of the Albertson’s grocery chain, the building symbolized a major act of community investment in business education at the university.

The structure is a T-form Postmodern building with Neo-Gothic quotations. Steel-reinforced and founded on smooth-dressed concrete, it is clad in red-pressed brick laid in stretcher bonds, visually aligning with the adjacent Collegiate Gothic Administration Building (1909). Gothic brick buttresses, cast concrete accents, and gabled rooflines reinforce this connection. The high-gable metal roof features prominent cross gables at the south and east elevations and a third-level metal balustrade. Contemporary elements include expansive multi-pane windows with metal mullions, steel canopies, and minimalist concrete banding. The north elevation, which serves as the primary entrance, features a double-leaf glass-panel door, molded iron signage beam, pediment-like gable window, and straight stairway framed by brick plinths. A prominent glass curtain wall and recessed window bays highlight the building’s liminal position between historic and contemporary campus styles.
