---
buildingid: lawbuilding
title: Law Building
---

The University of Idaho College of Law, established in 1909, became a member of the Association of American Law Schools in 1914 and achieved American Bar Association accreditation in 1925. For much of its early history, the college operated without a centralized facility, utilizing classrooms and administrative spaces dispersed across campus. By the early 1970s, university planners moved forward with a purpose-built law facility to consolidate classrooms, offices, and the college’s library. Designed by the Boise architectural firm Dropping, Kelley, Hosford & LaMarche, the new building was occupied in fall 1973 and formally dedicated in April 1974. It was named in 1984 for Albert Menard, who served as dean from 1967 to 1978. The Menard Law Building provided a permanent home for the College of Law and supported the university’s commitment to legal education.

A three-story structure with a partial basement, the Menard Law Building reflects Brutalist-style geometry, disciplined by uniform window openings and monumental stairways leading to multiple terraces. The exterior is clad in stretcher bond brick masonry over poured concrete. Tiered concrete stairs channel foot traffic up to the recessed, window-surrounded main entrance on the east elevation. Brick planters and short square pillars with rowlock and soldier brick detailing tie the stair complex into the overall aesthetic. Fenestration is consistent, with sash windows set beneath flat arch tops of vertical joint bricks, slip sills, and header-brick mullions. Doors are metal with glass panels, many with flush-light transoms. Renovations since 1973 have included a redesign of the main stairway to improve accessibility, completed in 2020.
