---
buildingid: library
title: Library
---

The University of Idaho Library originated in the Administration Building, which was destroyed by fire in 1906. A new collection space was included in the rebuilt structure and served students for several decades, but by the mid-20th century, growing enrollment and expanding research needs demanded a purpose-built library. Planning for a new facility began in 1950, and by 1957, the new library—designed by Ernest Price of Whitehouse, Price, Deneff, and Deeble—opened to the campus and community. Strategically located for future growth, the building underwent a major expansion in 1991, when a nearly 70,000-square-foot addition was constructed to the north. This $12.3 million project introduced a five-story tower, relocated the main entrance, and incorporated design elements referencing the campus’s Gothic traditions. Though these changes altered the setting and style of the 1957 structure, the building continues to serve as the university’s primary academic library.

The core structure includes four stories and a basement, composed of reinforced concrete with a brick façade and flat roof, originally formed in an irregular square and designed in the International Style. The 1991 Postmodern addition introduced a five-story tower on the northeast corner and a new wing along the north elevation, retaining red brick veneer. The current main entrance is located on the north side and consists of two sets of double doors with metal frames and plate glass. Most windows appear in horizontal rows, especially on the north elevation, with single-sash aluminum frames and a distinctive grid pattern reminiscent of Aldo Rossi’s work. The convex, glass-fronted atrium known as the “Fishbowl” nests under the northeast corner. The east, south, and west elevations are largely unfenestrated, maintaining the stark qualities of the original design.
