---
buildingid: mcclurehall
title: McClure Hall
---

As the University of Idaho entered the 1990s, the College of Mines was scattered across seven locations on campus. The last building constructed specifically for the college—the “New” Mines Building—dated to 1961. In response to growing needs, the university prioritized the construction of a new facility, breaking ground in 1993. The 70,000-square-foot building was named for U.S. Senator and university alumnus James A. McClure, recognized for his contributions to natural resource development. Completed in early 1995, the $11.8 million project was funded through federal, state, and private sources. McClure Hall initially housed the Departments of Metallurgical and Mining Engineering and Geography, as well as the Strategic Resources Lab, teaching labs, faculty and graduate offices, conference spaces, and a 75-seat lecture hall. After the College of Mines and Earth Resources closed in 2002, the building was repurposed for the College of Engineering and College of Science.

The 3.5-story, steel-reinforced concrete structure includes a full basement and features a generally rectangular form with Postmodern design and Contemporary influence. It sits on a smooth-dressed concrete slab and is clad in red-pressed and grey brick veneer with cast concrete accents, organized in a tripartite division. The roof combines a truncated hip with a flat penthouse section and includes four cylindrical exhaust chimneys. Four prominent projections on the south elevation are faced with copper-colored anodized aluminum bays and framed by cast-concrete bases and cornices. These elements repeat in a curved projection on the east side and a stair tower on the north elevation. The fenestration includes untrimmed sash windows, concrete-trimmed pairs, and trabeated openings with grey brick lintels. Arch-radiating brick voussoirs mark the ground-level projections, while cast concrete and metal detailing further define the building’s exterior.
