---
buildingid: minesbuildingnew
title: Mines Building (New)
---

The Mines Building is the third structure on the University of Idaho campus to bear that name. The original 1902 building was repeatedly condemned and ultimately razed in 1951. That same year, the university remodeled the 1907 Metallurgical Building and designated it the “New Mines Building.” However, as enrollment grew and the newly established College of Mines expanded its curriculum and faculty, this facility quickly proved inadequate. Planning for a new building began in 1956 under Dean of Mines J.D. Forrester. The design was finalized by Spokane-based architects Hicks, James, Culler, Gale, and Martell, and the building was completed in 1961 by Commercial Builder’s Inc. of Moscow for approximately $525,000. The project was jointly funded through a $250,000 appropriation from the Idaho State Legislature and contributions from ninety-seven mining companies and three hundred individual donors. The Mines Building reflects a key era of campus growth during the early 1960s, as the university prepared for a surge in enrollment and embraced Modernist architectural principles.

The three-story, International Style structure contains around 28,000 square feet of teaching, laboratory, and office space. It is composed of steel-reinforced concrete on a smooth concrete foundation, with a flat roof and concrete masonry interior walls. The design employs a Miesian approach: the first floor is recessed behind concrete pilotis that create the appearance of upper floors suspended above the base. A recessed entrance marks the west side of the north elevation. The building's two-story curtain wall dominates the primary façade, featuring bands of untrimmed, two-sash windows separated by thin metal mullions and ceramic-tile panels that distinguished the building from others on campus. Red brick on the west and east elevations visually ties the building to earlier campus architecture. Additional features include painted concrete block walls with vertical buttresses on the south elevation and metal, two-leaf entry doors throughout. The building’s geometry and minimalism emphasize the functional ethos of Modern design.
