---
buildingid: physicaleducationbuildingpeb
title: Physical Education Building (PEB)
---

Originally known as the Women’s Health Education Center, the Physical Education Building (PEB) was completed in 1970 alongside the adjoining Swim Center. Designed by Coeur d’Alene architect Fulton Gale of Culler, Gale, and Martell, the building was commissioned after the Women’s Gymnasium was repurposed for the Art and Architecture Department. The new facility was intended to support women's health education. Over time, the PEB has housed physical education classrooms, staff offices for the College of Education, Health and Human Sciences, locker and equipment rooms, a gymnasium, and a dance studio. As of 2024, it continues to serve these functions, while the Swim Center remains in use as originally intended. The PEB contributed to the university’s educational mission during a time of campus expansion.

The two-story building features a rectangular plan with a long eastern front, short north and south ends, and projecting wings to the northeast and southwest. It includes a partial basement and connects irregularly at the north to the Swim Center. The structure comprises steel-reinforced concrete masonry units set on a slab and concrete basement foundation. Its red brick veneer is laid in running stretcher bond. The building’s form and details reflect a Brutalist sensibility, including tapering slab brick buttresses, tall exterior stairwells, and large, flat brick wall panels. The roof combines saltbox and shed forms with black metal cladding in visible areas and a white membrane over the remainder. Entrances feature glass double doors with black trim, transoms, and sidelights, while windows are plain-trimmed and rectangular.
