---
buildingid: renfrewbuilding
title: Renfrew Building
---

Renfrew Hall, originally named the Physical Sciences Building, opened in 1964 as a state-of-the-art facility supporting science education and research during the height of the Cold War. Driven by national enthusiasm for technological advancement in the Space Age, the building provided modern classrooms and laboratories designed to train future chemists and physicists. Malcolm Renfrew, then head of the Department of Physical Sciences, described it as a place where students could “enhance their contemplations of the universe” and address the technical challenges of the era. In 1985, the building was renamed in his honor, reflecting his lasting impact on the university’s scientific programs. Designed by Dropping, Kelley & Finch of Boise, the building exemplifies the university’s shift toward efficient, Modern architecture in the postwar period.

The structure features a reinforced concrete frame on a poured concrete foundation and includes four stories above a basement. Two large lecture halls project from the south elevation. Stretcher bond brick veneer clads the building, which has a flat roof and repetitive concrete panel windows emblematic of the International Style. Narrow, vertically oriented window bays with raised concrete surrounds and inset aluminum-framed sashes stretch the full height of the north and south facades. Entry is located at the southeast corner beneath a shallow gallery of three peaked bays, leading to aluminum and glass doors with sidelights and transoms. East and west elevations are unfenestrated, reflecting their use as stairwells and reinforcing the building’s visual austerity.
